Hi listeners. Welcome back to No Priors.
Today we're here with Joe Lamm the
founder of the legendary technology
company Trilogy and now the principal of
Alpha School. He wants to educate a
billion kids differently and also
recruit a generation of builders to work
in education. Joe, thanks so much for
doing this with us. Yeah, good to see
you. Great, thank you. I appreciate
this. So you have an amazing story as a
technology entrepreneur. Trilogy is a
legend of a company. Can you just talk a
little bit about how you went from that
to being principal of a school?
Absolutely. Rolling back on background
in high school I actually wrote a paper
on AI.
Uh and it literally had a paragraph on
neural nets that said this is decades
away. And back then it was all expert
systems and tallies and all that and I
went to Stanford and
uh
actually was in a class with Ed
Feigenbaum the father of expert systems
ended up dropping out build a AI company
you couldn't call it back then cuz AI
was bad back then.
Uh and it was the first product in the
90s to sell a billion dollars of AI. So
we built a software company and did that
for 25 years uh but then That helped
with sales configuration.
>> configuration and and and
and all that. Uh and so think just
classic SAS enterprise software both
organic build and and acquisitions.
But then uh 10 years ago and sort of how
we got to the school is uh McKinsey
Price who's a Stanford grad who I'd
hired into Trilogy uh back in the 90s
she started a school started Alpha very
different school
and uh we can talk about how I got but
for 2 years I was just saying I'm not
going to go to your weird school.
And eventually both of my kids went.
And then 3 years ago
when GenAI came out I was like wow
neural nets are finally here and now uh
we can scale this. The problem with all
education is it's not scalable. There's
lots of you know point good education
systems. And what my view was wow this
is finally a technology that can get
this to a billion kids and take the
magic of Alpha which was great for
Austin kids and my kids
uh and get it out to everybody. And so
I'm a product guy and I said I guess I
have to be principal to go figure this
out and what happens when fifth graders
get in a fight and what do parents yell
at you about and how do you design a
product from the ground up? If you just
did you know let's start with parents
are going to drop their kids off at a
school at a building and there's going
to be other kids in the building and
there's going to be adults in the
building. What would you do to sort of
unleash human potential if you had 12
years to you know reimagine it? So what
was your original thinking about your
kids going to McKinsey's school? Like
what was the resistance and what was the
reason they eventually went? Lots. I
mean I
uh is every parent basically wants their
kid educated the way they were.
Right? That's what you've experienced.
We've all experienced the same model for
a couple hundred years. I went to
Catholic school. I didn't even like it
but my kids were going to it right? And
so they're in the local school and
McKinsey's giving this other you know
weirdness and I'm just like no. What was
weird about it or what was it about Well
she was they were using apps in the
morning right? And it was you know it
was a mix it wasn't what we are today
but it was the the
formation of it and you're like a kid's
going to learn really with an app and no
teacher? Are you really seriously like
everybody knows good school equals good
teacher or good teacher equals good
school and you're like no this app
DreamBox back then was the app and I'm
like that's better in math? And so you
just have that hang up and that that's
true today right? That you know when we
look to open a new location basically
everybody wants to go to an Alpha once
there's a hundred kids in the school. No
one wants to go when you're the first
20. Like are you it it takes somebody
like a McKinsey who's like I want to be
a founding family because the you know
the bundle that is education part of
what she loved was I get to go find the
other kids that I want to surround my
kids with. Right? And so it took her 2
years but eventually she got you know
and my our daughters are all now best
friends and have been for a decade. But
you're taking an even more radical
approach I think right? You're basically
saying kids really just need 2 hours a
day with structured classwork or you
know some interaction with applications
etc. and then the rest of the day can go
to other things. Could you extrapolate
on that a little bit more I think it's a
very interesting structure model. Well
if I I just step back when we just
talking about how we reimagined it
right? There's you know the pillars of
of reinvention
and if you say if you could reinvent a
school and had to make it 10 times
better what would it be? So the first
one and the most important and this was
McKinsey's co-founder who actually was
the one who uh told me this 10 years ago
I said what do I not know about school
that I should know?
He's like two things. First kids must
love school.
And I'm like you know sometimes He's
like nope you're going to learn kids
must love school.
And I said what's second? He's like when
kids love school your expectations of
your kids are too low.
And I'm like woah woah woah I really I
expect they should like get there's no
chance. He's like call me back in a
hundred days. And both of those turned
out to be true. So when we 3 years ago
when I was like okay now with GenAI what
we do our first view is kids must love
school more than vacation. So we
literally survey our kids. You know if
we say kids do you love school 96% say
yes.
We get between you know 40 and 60% of
kids depending on the vacation they have
or how their workshops or afternoon
workshops went saying every 8 weeks okay
I love school more than vacation. And
that is a magic that every parent should
expect that if we're going to put kids
in a place for 12 years
we should just have that expectation. Um
which is not standard. You're like okay
how do I make them love school? And so
for me you know once I took that uh
commitment that McKinsey had and I was
principal I went to the kids and this is
where your 2 hours are coming in. I went
to the kids and I was like okay the new
fifth graders would come in and it's my
first week yeah.
I'm like all right kids do you love
school?
And they're all like no.
And I'm like okay uh
what would make you love school?
Less school.
And I'm like how much less? And they're
like none.
And I'm like that seems a little light
you know. We were talking about this
earlier where school is kind of a bundle
right? It's academics it's physical
activity it's socialization and it's in
some sense it's child care for the
parents. So there's a variety of things
that school is. Exactly. And so what
what what specifically are they
referring to in And so on this one
they're just like the academic part I
don't if you want me to love school and
you're just going to put me in class for
6 hours a day I'm not going to love
school. And so I we negotiated basically
I was like 2 hours.
Right? If you would you cuz you know
there's EdTech that's been deployed
forever but you know EdTech's deployed
and test scores keep going down so it's
not working and the issue is just
engagement. That you know you could if
you use DreamBox you know even 10 years
ago it would work but you know there's a
lot of studies that like between 5 and
10% of people are the people who
actually engage with Khan right? And
there's 5 to 10% of people who are
self-motivated but the other 90
right? Don't. And so what we developed I
went back to my team I'm like okay and I
was like to the kids 2 hours a day in
the apps like real engagement but then
you get 4 hours of awesomeness.
Right? Is that a fair trade? And they're
like yes.
And so I went to my team I'm like okay
we got 2 hours. We got to jam everything
in these kids' heads in 2 hours and it
has to be there forever right? Change
the whole scheme of their brain. The
good news was there've been learning
science papers written for 40 years back
you know even before I went to high
school that talked about how kids could
learn two five or 10 times faster. They
just don't work in a teacher in front of
a classroom model.
And so we just literally just would pull
papers off you know Dean Schwartz at
Stanford has a book on it and we're like
okay let's do chapter K in his book you
know and and put it in. And so we built
a learning engine that teaches kids 10
times faster. It's all based on the
principles of learning science.
Um and
so then now we can commit to kids you
just need to do 2 hours a day and you're
going to crush your academics. So top 1%
performance in only 2 hours a day. Now
you they engage in the app and then once
they finish
it goes green and they get the 4-hour
afternoon to go do life skills and all
the you know the set of things that both
they love as well as when you talk about
a bundle what parents really care about.
Right? That when you start saying what
do I want my kid to learn especially
with AI coming and you're it's a very
confusing like what what are we supposed
to teach kids for the first 12 years
when AI's going to know everything but
you start thinking about leadership and
teamwork and grit and hard work and
entrepreneurship and financial literacy
and storytelling and public speaking
relationship building socialization that
bundle. Parents are like oh okay I like
that. And what's really great about
those is you can build awesome workshops
that kids love that drive them through
that. Can you make that um like easy to
picture for Yeah. parents or builders
listening here like I am a new fifth
grader at an Alpha school like what does
my day look like?
>> looks like this. You come in you do
limitless launch think Tony Robbins for
kids right? And it's all about growth
mindset you're going to be able to do
this right? Our view kids are limitless
they're awesome and we need to create an
environment that helps unleash them. So
you jump into that uh then you literally
sit down at your app and so you're going
to have a AI tutor that's going to be
there for 2 hours that's going to give
you personalized lessons.
Right? Based on your right your level.
Age grade and knowledge grade are two
totally different things. Right? The
number of people in the average sixth
grade class in this country who actually
need sixth grade content is very small.
And so this is why all the test scores
keep going down is a sixth grade
teacher's job is to deliver sixth grade
content. Her audience, right, her
students, actually aren't ready for it.
Mhm.
>> They just to give you like we just had
hundreds of kids join the last, you
know, couple weeks as we started across
the country. And you know, my message to
the parents, you know, my first academic
talk to them was
I I hate to tell you this is sounds
extreme, but your $50,000 private school
that you were at for however many years
has been lying to you. Uh-huh. Your
student academically on our stand on
standardized tests that we use are
somewhere between one grade level ahead
if they had a straight A transcript
transferring into us. One level one
grade level ahead to three grade levels
behind. Mhm. And if they're a B
>> And if they're a B, three grade levels
behind to seven years behind. Wow.
>> I have freshmen who are transferring in,
you know, who have
can't write a third grade grammatically
correct sentence.
All right. Yeah. It's just And these are
coming from high-end private schools,
right? And so, that's the first part.
The second part though, and this is
where the 10 times faster learning
matters. I'm like, don't worry.
We can catch you up. Mhm. Right? And
this is why we get such great academic
performance is learning science engine,
you know, the content when you talk
about 10 times faster.
The average grade level subject combo,
so math fourth grade math
>> Sure.
takes between 20 and 30 hours
to master. That's it. So, you think
there's 180 school days, hour a day plus
you have homework. So, you're thinking
the average when I'm behind it's
hundreds of hours.
>> We're like, you're 20 or 30 hours. And
so, these kids who come in instead of
our two hours a day, they can do a third
hour. And they can do it at school or at
homework Mhm. if they want. And so,
you're literally like, well, you're
really only 60 hours behind, which is 60
days. We'll catch you up to grade level
quickly. These are like 60 pretty hard
hours, right? Because I don't know what
your memory was, but in elementary
school, I spent a lot of time like
drooling, doodling on my desk because
there wasn't anything going on. And so,
so this is this is like hard focused
work. How do you get a second or fifth
grader to do that?
>> Yeah, so when you talk about hard
focused work, part of what you're trying
to do with the, you know, your engine is
there's a zone of proximal development.
And what you actually want to keep kids
at is between 80 and 85% right. Mhm. So,
you can't have 99% cuz, you know, that
means they already know it. And they're
just you're giving them content they
know. But if you drop down when you say
hard work and it drops down to 66% or
below, you get disengagement. Mhm.
Right? And every video game designer
knows that, right?
>> Yes, yeah. I'm in the like fun struggle
zone.
>> you have to be in the 80 to 85% and what
an AI tutor can do that an Alf that a
teacher in front of a classroom can't is
generate an unending stream of content
for each kid at 80 to 85% so I can keep
you engaged because I'm not going to
make it too hard, right? If you're
struggling on this concept, right? I
need this concept, right? If the leap is
too big,
>> Mhm. right? I can just create
scaffolding, right? And so, then you
just do the scaffolding lesson. You're
like, oh, I get this. And so, we're able
to figure out is the kid and create
content for them that keeps them in that
zone of proximal development so they
actually And it's not to say it's never
hard, right? But there is relative to
what when you're put in over your head.
Mhm. There's a view of throwing kids in
way over their head and the learning
science does not support that. Mhm.
Right? The learning science does not say
there's a concept of desirable
difficulties versus productive struggle.
It's it's a whole debate on. But if you
gave me an MCAT, Mhm. I would fail it.
And you can tell me to struggle through
it all day long, right? And have grit.
Sure.
>> to roll me back to freshman bio, right?
And then build me up.
>> Mhm. And AI tutors can do that for every
subject. Like the third grade lesson
when these high school kids can't write,
>> Sure. they're going to go through third,
fourth, six hours, right? They're going
to just learn it, right? And be able to
progress through it. And in a matter of
weeks, all of a sudden they're going to
be writing at what would AP Lang, Mhm.
you know, get a five on AP Lang in an
FRQ, right? And so, you can you can roll
these kids back. You do not want to push
them too hard. And you just want to
deliver them perfect content, which
accelerates their learning. Um and
that's the that's the magic of all of
this. Uh is the way we learned or
thought to learn of just putting them in
over their head is actually not the best
way to learn. This has happened. What's
What's going on the rest of the day? So,
then in the afternoons, it's all
project-based workshops. So, you're
going to go in and, you know, depending
on, you know, the grade level and the
workshop, it's going to have something
that you're going to love
as well as something that teaches a life
skill. And before I get into the
workshop, one of the things this is
where our love of school really comes
in, but you have to believe one
statement that lots of people do not
believe. Um you know, the three things
that if I could wave a magic wand and
every parent believed we could fix
education. One, your kid must love
school as much as vacation, which a lot
of parents don't think. Number two, they
can crush their academics in two hours a
day. And then this one is that the key
to your child's happiness
is high standards.
>> Mhm.
Kids want to do awesome things, right?
And they want to do all hard things,
right? And they want to accomplish
things. And if you take that away,
right? By setting low standards, then
there is no way that they get the love
of school.
>> And And that's actually a bunch of human
history, right? If you look at just
apprenticeship of people in different
crafts over the centuries, it was very
common for children to effectively start
working in the context of their parents'
environment and apprentice in something
and accomplish something, you know, make
something, build something.
>> you even you take even a modern day one,
most parents actually when you apply it
to academics, they don't they don't
agree. They don't think my kid's going
to get happier if I hold higher
standards. But it's actually true
at least at our schools. It But they all
believe it with sports. Everybody wants
their kid on the championship team with
the coach who's going to be like, guys,
this is going to be the hardest thing we
ever did. But we were in last place last
year. We're going to be in first next
year, but we're going to get there and
grind it and work and so be awesome and
we're going to have teamwork and leader,
right? And every parent's like, oh, I
want my kid to go through that, which is
why they all put them in after school
sports is to get those life skills,
right?
>> want to do it just even outside of
sports. I mean, they want to do it in
sports, but they want to do it on
everything. So, like we, you know, our
workshops, right? We have
kindergarteners who climb 40-ft rock
walls.
>> Yeah. Right? And you know, the parents
when they first see it cuz parents want
to protect their kid, right? Their job
is to keep safety. Parents don't want
their kid to struggle, fail, Mhm. and as
I had as principal sometimes cry on
their road to success supported by a
caring adult. Every child development
expert in the world will say,
you want to run that cycle on kids as
much as you can. That's the key to
self-confidence, resilience, growth. And
for us, it's also the key to love
school. And so, our workshops do that.
But as a parent, you're naturally like,
this seems too hard. I don't want to see
my kid struggle and fail, right? And
that's what our school set up is we have
guides because we don't have adults
teaching seventh grade science. So, we
hired the best motivational emotional
support experts,
>> Mhm. right? And it changes by age. You
know, you know, kindergarten is going to
be Mallory and Charity. We're going to
wrap your kid in love, right? Versus,
you know, at high school I have ex-NFL
athletes, ex-NBA coaches, right? Who can
take those set of video game playing,
you know,
uh middle school boys and be like, guys,
we're going to go do something.
>> Does this radically change how you
compensate people? I think in the
context of schooling, people always say
teachers are under-compensated and the
salaries are huge. Like is this a
different salary band? So, our So, we
pay minimum of $100,000 uh at our
schools um for the guides. And you know,
that allows us one, we get the best
teachers cuz, you know, back in if
there's a whole different thing of like
what's the future of teachers. Teachers
became teachers to transform kids'
lives. And your best teacher, she was
great because she found you and
convinced you you could do awesome
stuff, right? And she wasn't The reason
it They didn't become teachers to grade
that seventh grade science quiz. And
they weren't You didn't think they were
great because they marked your paper up
really well, right? It was It's because
of the motivational emotional support.
So, we go hire them and say, this is
what you get to do all day. You know,
during the two-hour blocks, we do
25-minute pomodoros of, you know, math,
science, language, reading. And they
take a kid out during the 25 minutes.
And they're like, okay, you don't have
to do math today. You know, come talk to
me and hey, hey, how's your weekend? And
you're winning the softball tournament.
What's going on? And you're having
trouble on engagement, right? And they
get to know the kids at a level that no
teacher can. You know, I was just up at
the San Francisco campus last night. And
one of the parents, it's been over 23
days. Mhm. And the parent's like, in 23
days, this guide knows more than the
teachers did in years, you know, in the
prior world. And I'm like, because
that's what they do all day. They don't
stand in front lecturing, right? They
spend the time getting to know the kids.
So, yes, so comp is different. And if
you want to go even edgier,
you know, if you talk to our middle and
high schoolers, and we'll we'll go
really edgy on the high school side. Our
high schoolers interview the guides
before they get hired.
Um and which everybody thinks is
terrible and that whole rate my teacher,
they're going to have low standards. The
difference is when you have kids who
want to go be great and in this
environment, they want adults who are
going to help them. And so, they hold
really high standards for this, you
know, the guides that we hire.
>> The sports analogy is really interesting
cuz I'm like, I would totally believe
that, you know, there's a bunch of
motivated high schoolers who are going
to go pick the the coach that will make
them most successful. But the instinct
is that they won't if it's academic.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. And there really is this whole we
have two different ethos in America
about sports versus academics. and um
Steph who runs K through 8 for us,
right? She came out of the sports world
and she's like, "My job is to bring the
athletic ethos to academics." And when
you talk about the guides we hire and
things like that, that model that
parents actually believe in that does
develop life skills, right? Is and and
kids love it. And so yes, if we could
change that, that would be huge.
>> How universal do you think this is?
Because like let's just say like I have
a couple kids, they have different
temperaments, right? Some of them are
sports-oriented, they have more natural
resilience, some are less so, you know,
some people are more motivated about
learning, less so. Like how do you how
do you handle that as Alpha school for a
particular type of kid? Our job is to
get this to a billion kids, so we're
working to make it available to
everybody both price point as well as
personality type. And a lot of it is
when we talk about love of school, it
helps you design your product. Which is,
you know, I get all the guides. We've
opened besides Alpha uh we opened up
different schools branded schools for
different afternoons. So I have a sports
academy where you play sports all
afternoon. I have a gifted talented
school where in the afternoon you do
academic enrichment, robotics, math
olympiad, write a book. And a lot of it
is when we when we ask the guides, we're
like, "Okay, we only had 40% of the kids
love school instead of vacation, how do
we juice that to 75?" You know, the GT
guides are like, "More academics. They
want a third power hour."
You know, and what are we going to do?
And that's what fires them up. My oldest
daughter is like that. Like she read
calculus books in high school and you
know, she's a double major at Stanford
now and she literally is like, "These
STEM boys can't write." And so she wrote
a English writing class that's
equation-based writing to help teach
them, right? And so if she can do
academics all day, she loves it. My
younger daughter who's still in high
school
wakes up every day and while
academically does great and you know,
uh
just took the SAT, hopefully has as good
scores as her sister. Uh is like, "Is
this the last academics I have to do?"
Right? Am I done? Is calc BC like the
last math I have to do? Or I'm done. She
has millions of followers on TikTok, you
know, and you know, she built an online
um AI dating app for high school boys
and you know, and wakes up and is like,
"I just want to be social all day. Build
relationships." And so you know, it's
it's it's that continuum or and it's
finding what is the passion for your
kid. And then saying, "Okay, we're going
to put you in an environment where you
get more of that." Right? And that then
drives your academic performance in the
morning, which is
you know, if you're going to give the
kid the time back, right? The our
product name
is time back. Give the kid the time
back. That's the single biggest
motivator. Well, we can talk motivation
about later, but the biggest motivator
for kids is don't waste my life. Don't
waste my 12 years. Cuz that's what
you're doing. And we all know you sit in
traffic that's 95% of the time is
wasted, you know, all that. And so we're
like, "Great, 2 hours and then we're
going to make sure your afternoon's
awesome."
>> that a bit more actually? Like your
focus on incentives and I think you've
been very forward-thinking in terms of
like just give them any incentive as
long as it motivates them to do the
things you want them to do. Can you
extrapolate on that a little bit? Sure.
You know, this is once again, we do
obviously controversial things
but motivation is one of the biggest
ones where
we wake up every day and say, "How do we
motivate these students
and do it in a way where they're going
to love school and have great results
and high standards?" And so and our
guides literally create all these
different motivational programs. There's
an Astral Codex article that one of our
GT parents wrote and you know, his
summary was Alpha bucks, right? Where we
give them, you know, bucks is the number
one motivator, which that's not actually
true, which is it we'll talk about when
money matters but time back by far is
the biggest motivator of kids where if
you took our Westlake high school or you
know in Austin where they do 6 hours a
day in class, 4 hours a day homework if
you're on AP Ivy League track, right?
You can't pay those kids enough money to
be happy, right? They are just grinding
it and if they love academics, great,
but for everybody else, it's a grind and
they hate it. But if you tell those same
kids, look, it's 2 to 3 hours a day. You
can still get 1550 plus on your SAT and
fives on your APs, but then you get
afternoons, 4 years of afternoon in high
school to do awesome stuff you love. And
that's true across all of them. Now,
when do we use other motivations? You
know, every guide wakes up every day and
says, "I have to make this kid love
school and set high standards, right?
High support, high standards."
What's going to motivate the student to
do it? And sometimes it's a sticker,
right? Every kid has different
motivations. Some are competition. So we
have leaderboards and we have people who
have who are like, "I'm going to win
just cuz I want to be first."
>> system for the guide? Is there
differential compensation based on how
well their students do? Is it some other
incentive system? So the guides have to
deliver all three commitments to all
their guide group.
Right? And that and it is they are
accountable for it. So if you are not
delivering all three commitments, love
school, 2x learning and life skills to
all your kids, you won't be at Alpha
long.
So it's not a tenure system.
>> tenure system. It is you are here,
right? To deliver that. Second, you know
we survey the students and say
every adult had one or two teachers who
transformed their life. Is your guide
that for you?
And that's the standard that they have
to live up to. At kindergarten it's
like, do you love your guide?
But as you get older and then
there's a second one if you're going to
be our middle high school guide, which
is at middle and high school, one of the
things we tell parents is you know, the
key is high standards, high support.
High standards is hard with an
adolescence, right? And so our question
we ask parents is do you trust your
Alpha guide to hold the high standards
so you as the parent can provide the
unconditional love and support? Which
totally transforms your relationship
with your teen if you trust them. Like
my oldest daughter, you know, she's
like, "No, Dad, I'm not going to let you
read my Stanford application."
And I'm like,
you know?
And I'm like, she's like, "No." Cuz she
doesn't want Right?
Teens don't want that. But for me,
Chloe, who's her guide, right? Harvard
grad who wants to, you know, uh
Chloe's like, "Don't worry. I got it,
right? And it's going to be fine." And
that's what you want. The same way you
outsource to a coach in sports. Right?
Every parent's like, "Yeah, he's going
to make this super hard for my kid.
They're going to win state. They're
going to be great at it." Right? And we
don't expect teachers That's how we call
teachers being 10x better is that kind
of relationship. And so yes, you can
make more and there's, you know,
different bands and are you lead guide
and all of that.
>> So one of the things that was like most
controversial to me when we were first
speaking is I feel like, you know,
schooling is mixed up with a lot of
parenting philosophy and that makes it
complicated and I I think there's a
popular view of like if you give kids a
bunch of extrinsic motivators, right?
Could be stickers, it could be time
back, you're hurting their building of
intrinsic motivation. They should just
want to do it. How do you react to that?
No. The answer is just very clearly,
that's just not true. Okay, but explain
yourself.
>> and I know everybody believes it and I
was trying to I I paused cuz I was like,
should I go through like the research
that goes into this? But
>> kid when they're 30 to be a
self-actualized person, you know? But
here's here's what you're paying them.
It So let's talk about paying. So
paying's the most controversial side and
so let's just we hit it. We start in
kindergarten you can earn an Alpha buck.
And we we have an economy based on this
where kids learn how to earn, right?
Okay, I did work, I earned it. I learned
how to save, I learned how to spend. I
have an emporium and I have to decide
where am I going to, you know, spend my
money. I I learn how to donate, right?
And so we learn how to save and invest
and donate as an ecosystem and it's
important that the kids are earning it,
being given it. And as you go up when
you talk about our middle school
right? Parents are like, we have a a
system where if you're not top 1% coming
into our middle school, we will pay you
$1,000
when you hit top 1% in your subject.
It's a lot of money for a middle
schooler. And that $1,000, now there's
two and parents are like, "Okay, I hate
that." I'm like, "Wait." But then that
money then goes and feeds their Robin
Hood for kids account. Right? Which then
now they have real money to invest,
right? Which really matters. Well, if
some of the seven, you know, they're
going to yolo it and lose it.
And you know, uh and I have parents are
like, "How'd you let them lose all that
money?" And you're like, "This is the
best time for them to learn not to do
that and actually learn good investing
behavior and not gambling." And if it's
not real money, right? And if it's just
like a oh a shadow account, right? Or
fake account, it actually teaches
dysfunctional behavior cuz it actually
teaches you to low low yolo cuz there's
no downside. This actually is their
money and it teaches them good habits.
You mentioned you could also apply that
I think to projects or other things as
well. So do you want to talk about that
a little bit?
>> And then the second part is they
use it for their passion project. So we
had a girl who was building the first
all-teen produced Broadway musical. And
you know, she had to do her math. She
got up to 790 math SAT and funded and it
allowed her to get the money to fly to
New York to meet the producers to figure
all of that out. And parents on either
end of those are like, "Okay, those seem
like good examples, right?" And and you
get the motivation on the academics and
it unlocks what they can do and then
second funds things that parents are
like, "Okay, this is all good." That is
kind of how achievement is in adult
works as well. 100%. It's 100%. But
getting back to the core about your
worried about intrinsic extrinsic, kids
have part of when you're trying to make
kid help kids realize they're limitless
and there's no blocks, kids all have
inherent blocks on what they can do. I'm
not smart enough. I'm not a top 1% kid.
I'm not here. I don't have the daily
habits.
And so if you can use money to create
the daily habits,
every parent should. Right? Because the
daily habits are what's going to help
them more than the downside. The second
part is if you can break a block that's
in their head,
you should pay it. So here's my example
is my
My oldest daughter was self-motivated on
academics. So it didn't matter. But my
youngest daughter is just like when she
got to middle school, she's like, "Yeah,
I'm top 10% dad, but that's good
enough."
Um
I'm just I'm not like my older sister
who's the smart one and I'm not and I'm
not top 1% and I was like, "You know,
well,
the one thing I know about you, you love
to shop."
And I was like, "I bet you a thousand
dollars you can't get to top 1%. This is
how a thousand dollars works."
And
she was like, "And she literally folded
it up. It was a gift card." With all
these things and every day she'd look at
it.
And then she would go into the apps.
And this causes controversy like
uh my wife we had a lot of family
discussions about this. Right? Because
the two things
are you're paying kids and second are
you setting high standards too high?
Right? And so after she hit the thousand
dollar hit the 1%, got the thousand
dollars, bought everything she wanted,
she sat down with my wife, right? And
she's like, "Mom,
look, I know you didn't like this, but
here's what you have to understand,
which is
uh
I never thought I could do this.
I never thought I was top 1% and I now
realize I'm actually as smart as my
older sister and I can do anything she
can do if I just put in the work.
That changing of how she saw herself,
right? Every parent would pay a thousand
dollars, right? We spend 20 grand a year
just in America.
We spent a thousand dollars to get every
kid to believe I can do anything and
there's not these inherent blocks. I'll
give you one other one. If I was We had
the Secretary of Education down at Alpha
last week and I was like, "Here's the
number one thing if I was in charge of
education to fix
is and it uses money, which is the
reason kids can't learn and why, you
know, our education in America starts to
slow down in middle school and by the
time you get to high school kids
basically aren't learning. The median
high school student in America goes up
one point on a 300 point scale in four
years.
Right? Now your top 99% go up about six
points a year, so they're still crushing
it. But your median person literally
doesn't learn anything in high school
and it slows down in middle school. And
the reason is is because we have a
time-based system, not a mastery-based
system and every learning science paper
says that is you just get Swiss cheese
holes. If you haven't mastered
fractions, algebra's going to be really
hard. And if you haven't mastered
algebra, chemistry's going to be right.
It's just it's all hierarchical. And so
what you what we do when we get these
middle schoolers who are behind is we
come in and we developed, you know, back
to motivation really mattering. I sat
down with the seventh graders, you know,
this is three years ago and I'm like,
"Look guys,
you need to go back and fill a fourth
grade hole."
And I learned immediately that seventh
graders do not want to do that. There's
no world where they want to go backward.
And the only people who want that less
is their parents. And I was yelled at. I
mean, my kid needs to be in eighth
grade. I'm like, "That is not what the
learning science says. He needs to go
back and fix this."
And anyway, I eventually had to give up
on the parents and I could never
convince them.
And so I just went to the kids. I'm
like, "Guys, you could get a hundred on
the Texas Star, the standardized test."
They're like, "No, I can't, Mr. Liman."
I'm like, "No, no, no, I'll give you a
hundred dollar bill for a hundred. A
hundred for a hundred." They're like,
"It's still impossible, Mr. Liman." I'm
like, "No, no, no, there's a catch.
Any grade level."
And they're like, "I can take a
kindergarten test and you're going to
give me a hundred bucks?" I'm like,
"Well, Texas Star starts in third
grade." They're like, "Done." They took
third grade test, get a hundred. Take
the fourth grade They're Can I be fourth
grade?
Hundred.
They go to fifth grade and don't get a
hundred. They get an 85 or 75. The AI
back to personalize why the personalized
tutor matters, it generates all I'm
like, "Do you want it to generate all
the lessons
to get you to a hundred that you missed
that you need?" They're like, "Let me
see how many."
They're like, "I can do that in a week."
Right? They do it, right? And you move
them up. And that we need to do that for
everybody in America.
Right? Because it does two things back
to it. One, it whole fills all their
issues, right? Which will stop them from
slowing down on learning. It'll keep it
linear.
Um and then second, their perception.
Like there's a view that the only people
who get a hundred on a state test on a
standardized test are the smart GT kids.
Everybody can.
Right? Everybody can get a hundred that
you separate that it's IQ versus effort
and I feel if you said why the athletic
ethos doesn't come to academics is
because every parent because of the
time-based system we have and the system
we do have, you know, in most schools,
it is based on IQ, right? If you're good
in normal school, you are both IQ coded
and cons big five conscientious coded,
right? Just all the data says that. And
this our system literally separates that
where it's just like we're going to give
you personalized lessons at 80-85% and
if you just put the time in, you can
master every subject, right? Through the
eighth grade. How do you think about
there's there's sort of this broader
societal context right now where
uh you know, there there's the sort of
hate book around coddling of the
American mind and sort of things being
too easy, lack of resilience, etc.
There's a separate thing which is sort
of this mental health way it's gone
through schools where if you look at
things like autism spectrum disorder, it
went from one in a few thousand to 3% of
the population in terms of diagnoses.
You have massive ADHD diagnoses and a
lot of kids on Ritalin, which is
effectively certain types of drugs. You
have
uh
very strong perception of mental health
crisis for teenage girls and a lot of
them end up on SSRIs. And so you have a
mix of medication, diagnosis, all these
other things that is really the milieu
for or the context for schooling. How do
you all think about that in the context
of Alpha? Yeah, all those things are
true and I believe part of it is cuz we
have this terrible 12-year system that
we subject the kids to. And if you
literally sat down and, you know, said
from first principles, what do we expect
if we set low expectation, waste 95% of
kids' life, and put endless pressure on
them? What happens after 12 years?
You're like, "Not good things." And so,
you know, and the a lot of the
diagnoses, right? IEPs and whether,
you know, and
Yeah, and and so there's there's this
whole thing where fundamentally what an
IEP is is trying to give your kid a
personalized education. Right? Everybody
knows an individual tutor is better than
one teacher in front of 30 kids. And so
all these IEPs and
So it's it's it's a plan in a public
school that gives you a Basically, it's
an individualized plan right? For each
kid. And you want a diagnosis cuz then
you get one, right? Dyslexia,
dysgraphia, whatever, ADHD, whatever it
is. And you know, when parents come to
our school, first you just talk to our
parents who had all these diagnoses and
now they're at Alpha,
you know, the once you go to Alpha,
you're like, "Well, your kid's not going
to sit in class for six hours and be
bored." You have the oh, he's disruptive
in the class.
You know, and he's he's a problem child,
right? And all these things that I need
to med him up, you know, to solve it.
No, you don't. You just need him to
engage for two hours of the app and then
have the rest of the afternoon not that.
Right? And
it completely transforms the kid. And,
you know, back to just the over
diagnosing, I believe it's I don't know
if it's over diagnosing given the system
it is, but in the Alpha system it's
completely different. And I would say
the second part about mental health
issues, I believe a lot of it comes back
to this low standards where, you know,
we get into the middle back to we'll
focus on middle school, right? Um in
middle school you get in also girls, you
know, who are like, "I'm not a math
science girl on the academic side. And
second, I school Tik Tok all day."
Right? And you're like, "Where is this
going?"
Right? And it's not going to be good,
right? And at our school, first of all,
we have to make the kid love school.
Right? And we have all day. We have half
the day to do awesome stuff. And so our
workshop, one of the workshops we do uh
is uh you do a values chart. Who do you
want to be, right? Vision board. And
these kids have awesome things they want
to do.
Right? And then you say, we do Japanese
ikigai, right? You know, for all those
who know. And what are you good at and
what's your passion and what does the
world need? And then we do a 168 hour
project. What do you spend every hour of
your week?
And, you know, and this this girl came
and she's like, "Well, Mr. Liman, I
guess I'm going to be the best Tik Tok
scroller."
And it's the exact opposite of what her
vision chart was, but it was the
realization of, right? That discrepancy.
And then our job is to use her
afternoons to have her become a creator,
as we say. Like our middle school
basically will take consumers and turn
them into creators. And what parents
need to understand is every kid actually
wants to be awesome and wants to be a
creator and they don't wake up saying,
"I just want to be a video game player
Tik Tok scroller." They don't want to
be, but our schools don't give them an
out, right? And that's where this
environment can totally unleash them cuz
you're like, "Well, they don't have to
do that."
>> This sounds like a very awesome
experience for the kids and very
ambitious. It also sounds very
expensive. So how do you you said like
the goal is a billion kids. Um
how do you pay for a billion kids to
have this type of experience?
>> Sure. And so we're talking about Alpha
and so just back to the things we're
building. So at Alpha it's a high-end
branded school. So there's going to be
in a hundred cities, there's going to be
an Alpha model. It's going to be
expensive. We literally when it was
designed, we said pretend price is no
object, you know, and just and set that
there. But now we're building out other
schools, right? At half the price and
lower uh to where we actually have
schools now down to 15,000,
which is lower than your average public
school spends today.
Um and so we're now it changes what your
product is. So, for example, a sports
academy
is actually for kids who love sports,
you don't need all these expensive
workshops. You just need a field and a
coach. And you can have 25 to one,
right? So, things of how we lower cost
ratios. Schools are driven by how much
you pay the teachers and what's the
student teacher ratio. Now, crazy part
about the student teacher ratio is,
you know, in normal school, because
you're trying to just replicate an
individualized learning, smaller class
size is better, you know, in a lot of
cases. But in our schools, it doesn't
matter.
Right? And if you actually ask our high
school guides, and I was like, "Okay,
I can double the pay for a guide, but
you're going to have twice as big a
class size. What do you guys want?" They
all vote for twice as big a class size.
They want a more awesome person to help
coach them.
Right? And so, you can fix your
economics and drive that. So, GT school
also is very cheap.
That the GT kids are like, "Oh, I want
to do math Olympiad and robotics and all
the relatively inexpensive workshops."
And so, those those are, you know, at a
right now they're 20 to 25,000. We're
opening a Montessori one at that price
point. Um
sort of next gen Montessori. And but we
expect we will have hundreds of schools
in Texas, this Texas sports academy,
next year. A billion dollars of vouchers
are coming. You get 10-ish to 11,000,
you know, at 15 grand. So, four four or
500 dollar a month parent pay. And we
can make this available to everybody.
>> running this as a for-profit, is that
correct?
>> Yes. So, we we run it as for-profit. We
also have a little big scholarship fund,
right? And And what sort of people are
you trying to attract? Because I know
one conversation that we were all having
earlier was how people often wonder, can
you make money in education? And you're
really focused on let's build something
incredibly impactful, incredibly useful,
that also makes money. Are there
specific types of people that you want
to have join you on this effort or Yeah,
no, that's So, my my best goal out of
this would be
uh education is seen as it has to be
non-profit, it has to be funded by
donations, and you have to be you can't
make any money. And anything that makes
money, or if you bring capitalism to
education, you are bringing evil into
the world. And there's examples, so
there's reasons why that you know,
historically. But that's not necessarily
true, right? And that's what we're
trying to show is that you can build
great businesses, right? That are
for-profit, right? But that
both have mission and and money as a
purpose. And so, I'm trying to attract
builders who, you know, if we're going
to reinvent education, right? If every
kid I guess we hear stuff about if every
kid's going to learn everything they
need to know in two hours a day. And
there's going to be a tablet less than a
thousand dollars for everybody in the
world. That's coming.
Thousand dollars for everybody in the
world in two hours a day of what we
spent all day in class for, every family
and society has to say, "Well, now how
are we going to educate our kids and
what are our values and what do we want
to allow?" And I think part of what I'm
trying to do is let's go get a bunch of
builders to go build awesome products,
right? Let's go build the world's best
sports academy. Are you mostly looking
for engineers? Are you looking for
operations people to run these schools
at scale? Are you looking for All of
them. So, we're releasing Timeback,
which is going to be a platform that you
can build schools on. So, literally you
don't have to know, you know, all the
learning science. It's going to be all
packaged, right? And then you basically
do the afternoon, right? And so, that's
what this Texas sports academy is. It's
literally it's coaches, you know, in a
thousand school districts around Texas.
So, there's that that aspect. There are
set of coders and builders, which is
once you start most of ed tech does not
use learning science,
right? Which is one of the biggest
issues. And once you say, "I'm going to
build an app from the ground up based on
learning science," right? You all of a
sudden can say kids can learn in 20
hours. Like, math academy is like the
best math app that's out there, right?
And that's a great awesome team who, you
know, if you want to learn about it,
just go research all their stuff. But we
need that for every subject, right? And
so, we need builders and parents will
pay. Like, one of I'll I'll give you one
aspect on top of Timeback that's being
done is there's a triple-A video game
team, right? Who is building a video
game on top of it. And this video game
is going to be both free to learn for
everybody on the planet, but they also
believe it'll be the most
profitable video game ever built, right?
That there's just easily, you know, just
in America alone there's 10 million moms
who'll pay a hundred bucks a month to
have their kid be in the top one or five
percent. And so, as you think about, you
know, getting it down to scale, there is
a software element, right? That is going
to be available for the software
builders. But it is even builder, we
need sort of the full stack.
You know, you're going to have buildings
and real estate and guides and teachers,
but I think, you know, I think there's
going to be just an explosion of
different opportunities. I think for our
audience, there's a lot of tech and
business people that'd be like, "Oh,
well, you know, Joe's a software guy,
seems like a pretty confident executive,
and he's about to run into the wall of
like the slowness of the education
system and regulation and the fact that
like most kids go to public school, and
there's a bunch of restrictions around
what you can do, and you can't get that
time back. And so, how do you think
about like this is parallel system and
how quickly you can make that transition
or how like everyone should think about
it? No, this is great cuz in my first
year, part of when I got into this, I'm
like, "Ah, how do I make a business out
of this?" And, you know, I I put in the
first billion and just said, "Okay, this
is my seed fund seed fund to be able to
go figure this out." And but a a lot of
it is I got to get this to product
market fit that thing Google funding. To
rebuild education is going to take
hundreds of billions of dollars. There's
10,000 buildings that need to go be
built, right? It's it's a huge endeavor.
Um you know, every country is going to
want its own LLM, right? Cuz when you
talk about sovereign AI, the number one
use case of sovereign AI is either
military education, obviously education
is the one everyone wants to talk about.
And so, there's a the investment here is
going to be enormous. And so, how do you
build profitable models? So, one of the
things about education, you know, is
you're you're as you're doing your
whatever mental model of which your
peach head, the private school market is
huge. So, the private school market in
US is already over 50 billion dollars.
And so, if you want to go build a
multi-billion dollar company, it's easy
cuz these guys haven't innovated in a
hundred years, right? And so, all you
you don't have to fix public education
on day one. You can go just fix
private,
you know, back to scale, there's a
million kids in America who could afford
50,000 tuition. So, if you want to go
high end. There's also as you go as you
go move down, the amount of private
school vouchers and funding that's
opened up is enormous.
So, when you think about the scale,
Texas spends a hundred billion dollars a
year in education
annually. They just released a billion
dollars in vouchers, right? That are
going to be available, right? Next year.
You can go build a great
billion dollar business, right? And
those are only going to increase over
time. If you look at the big government
the federal bill that just passed, if
you actually do all the math,
I think Bloomberg just did it. They're
like, "There's like 200 billion dollars
of vouchers that are going to be
available to parents to use on private
school um education."
And so, there's enormous amounts that
are either already out there that
parents pay for, or second that are
coming,
right? And if you can build low-cost
school models or these, you know, good
protected awesome products for whatever
your vision and niches. Where's, you
know, arts, theater, music school, etc.
>> Given given how much um is available
from a market perspective or revenue
perspective, why has there been so
little innovation? So, a lot a lot is
everybody is only knows their education.
So, here's the big breakthrough you have
to have to to believe this. Back to the
one is if you think the only way to
educate a kid is a teacher in front of a
classroom, you can't do this.
This the model does not work, right? You
have to be willing to break that. And
99.9%
of parents are not willing to think of
that. Because even if I go build it, how
do I convince parents right? To come to
my school? It took McKinsey two years,
right? That's a really long sales cycle,
you know, for one family. And so, you're
that's part of what we're trying to do
and, you know, get out there and be the
exemplar for everybody is
you have to be willing to break the
teacher in front of a classroom model.
And then once you do, you're like,
"Okay, now everything can change and I
can rebuild."
If you could uh
convince every
uh relevant policy or lawmaker that has
to do with education of something, what
would you what would you say? Because
I'd say like, "Well, one thing is to
make the default something that is
Timeback powered or or follows this
model more." School's a hard bundle. And
this is the problem. We got to get it to
public school eventually. I believe it
is going to be a long lift, right? I
think it is going to be a decade to get
it to public school. And part of what we
are doing is
we have to show we got to get the data,
right? There's all these fads in
education, ed tech, one more, oh my god,
it's not going to work, all that.
I'm like,
What data in particular? Like academic
performance data you have? Well, not at
my end's not big enough, right? Let's go
get a million kids,
right? And let's do let why don't we do
pharmaceutical grade randomized control
trials for education? We don't do that
at all, right? We any latest fad is
like, oh, this is what we're doing in
schools these days, right? And I'm like,
no, let's actually sit here and have the
government sit and do,
you know, studies where we're going to
be able to say this works, right? The
learning science is there, right? Where
you could build products, run them
through a test, right? And then be able
to say we should adopt this whole thing.
There's been a lot of things that have
been adopted in the last 25 years that
are terrible. Yeah. Right? That you're
just like, oh my god, I can't. And
What's an example? There's a new wave
coming back, which is the science of
reading. But how we taught most of the
kids to read, you know, 20 years ago, is
why they can't read, right? Well, I'll
take modern ones. Let's just take modern
ones.
>> Sure.
Okay, we're not going to have kids
memorize their multiplication tables.
That's bad. And I'm like, that is the
worst thing you could do to a kid. That,
you know, all the cognitive load theory,
right? You know, you have working memory
slots, and then how many reps it takes
to store into long-term schema. And your
working memory slots, you can't do
advanced math problems. If you're in the
middle if you have limited working
>> it trying to Correct. If you're in an
advanced math problem and you're doing 7
* 8, and 7 * 8 to you is still a
calculation, right? You're doomed,
right? There's just there's no way
around it. You'll start making careless
errors, you know, I have plenty of
stories around this. All the kids who
transferred to our school from, you
know, public and private, do not know
their memorization their multiplication
division tables.
>> It's considered bad now. I was in the
wrong.
>> And And so you're like, let's go back to
this. There's a bigger wave coming.
There's a bigger wave coming, which is
the current school system does not know
what's about to hit it. ChatGPT, first
of all, I won't even get into the
technology.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Chat is literally the
worst thing in the world. If you give
kids ChatGPT in school and academics,
90% will use it for cheating. It is a
cheat bot. It is not a chat bot. It is
terrible. And so like in our academic
two hours, there is no chat
functionality. We've tried, and the kids
all jailbreak it and get around it.
>> Yeah. And so it's terrible. And so kids
are knowing less and less, and the
current system is not set up to stop
that. Writing is prompting. Kids write
one prompt and they think, I'm a writer.
But writing is thinking, right? And the
best way to re- write to learn something
long-term, deep, and re- write,
restructure your schema, is write it.
And no kids are doing that anymore.
There's also a whole set who are like,
well, we don't need to know anything.
Right? We don't need facts in our brains
because ChatGPT There was a wave with
Google years ago.
Yeah, and they're just like, we don't
need to know that. But here's the
problem. The This next sentence out of
the same parents' mouth is, but I want
my kid to critically think. Yeah, yeah.
Right? And that concept, there's no
learning science that will support that
concept. None. You know, if you have a
LLMs who try to reason with no facts, we
call it hallucination. And that is
basically what kids are doing. If you
don't give them a fact base, And their
opinions, they're just making stuff up.
You have to reason over a fact base. So
you have to put facts in. Now, AI in
these learning things, we can put in
those facts super fast. It's like Neo
uploading the Matrix, right? We can AI
take away cuz it could cause cheating,
but it also giveth where you're like,
okay, we can get kids into kids' brain
10 times faster. They don't have to
spend six hours. But that concept,
right, of all these things. So when you
talk about policy and stuff, don't
deploy ChatGPT. Sorry, guys. You know,
um in its current form, go rebuild
everything around learning science
concepts, right? You need basically the
LLM to have the concepts of learning
science, which inform it.
And then if I was running a school, the
problem with schools is it is a bundle.
Mhm. And, you know, I I talk to
principals and superintendents in public
schools, and I mean their job's 100
times harder than mine. Like theirs is
because you don't as a product guy, they
don't have a customer base. They have to
serve everybody.
>> Mhm. And so you have
customer and the opposite, right? So
like there's three schools in Austin
that they're failing, you know, F's for
years. Kids aren't learning. And they
The superintendent's like, okay, I'm
going to shut it down, and we're going
to move the kids to the good school
academically.
The parents are, you know, protesting
around the school, and they're like, I
don't care that the seventh grade math
teacher is not teaching math because my
older daughter had that teacher, and she
transformed her life. And so I'm going
to I'm willing to give up seventh grade
math academics in order to get that
other benefit. And so as a as a
superintendent or principal, you're
like, what are you What are you doing?
And so it's a hard problem for these to
to transform because your parents
and your community base, right, want
very different things in that bundle
um that they think is best for their
kid. Mhm. And so but So some version of
it is going to be allowed, you know, as
and funding for different versions of
the bundle. Yeah, I I do I guess if I
had to do the it's I I believe if you
want to sit and say, what is the bundle,
school choice is one way to do it, and
that brings private market in, you know,
but how do you
support and buttress the public school
system? I believe there are a set of
academic things we can do where we are
working with We do have some pilots in,
you know, a few thousand public school
students where MTSS level three, if you
know what that is, that's your bottom
10% kids, where schools have the most
flexibility. So for example, we were
doing one over in Fremont.
And, you know, the hardest part of it
isn't, okay, does the app work? It's
like, motivation's 90% of the answer.
How are you going to motivate the kid
who has to sit in class still for six
hours a day
to actually engage with the app?
And the kids are like, I'm not going to
do it, right? You can't take our If the
That doesn't matter. Yeah, ed tech
doesn't matter. You put our ed tech and
put it in his classroom, it's not going
to work. It's the motivation model. And
so we got the school cuz they're, you
know, at MTSS level three, they're like,
we can use gift cards. Mhm. And you're
like, okay, kid, do the lesson, you just
get a gift card, right? And, you know,
or oh, wait, let's build a video game
that they'll play, or, you know,
whatever it is where if you don't solve
motivation, all this ed tech doesn't
matter, whether an AI tutor, none of it
matters. And the reason kids use AI to
cheat
is cuz they're just trying to get
through the system, not trying to learn.
And everybody's like, oh, I just hope
they're self-driven learners who just
have a love of learning. And you're
like, there is 5 to 10% of the market.
You should give them ChatGPT and
Socratic Tutor, and they'll love it. The
other 90% are like, how do I get through
this?
And that's the You know, if you If you
talk to most kids and say what the
highlight of your day is, 90% of kids
are like, lunch, talking to my friends,
recess. And I'm like, we waste 12 years
of kids' lives, right? And we're just
like, how do we stop it? Uh before we're
out of time, can we talk a little bit
about like where ed tech does matter or
if if you even considered ed tech like
where you are on the product today, and
um what ambition do you have for it to
like be better uh for engineers and
researchers, whoever else could go work
for you.
>> mean, the the problem with ed tech today
and why it's failed and nobody wants to
invest in it is you're trying to sell to
a school system
who actually doesn't care about academic
outcomes, back to the bundle. And you
can't change the the metrics that
matter. And so
you can't get any money for it. So
there's no, right, there's no ARPU.
Uh and then
endlessly long sales cycles. And then
second, your product's actually not that
good. Sorry, ed tech guys. It's just not
that good.
And
go rebuild a product based on the
concepts of learning science and build
an awesome product, right? Have a much
higher standard of what your product has
to do, and that I believe can change
things. Like, you know, the fact Math
Academy, right? How many math apps are
there? A zillion of them. I mean, the
results that you get with Math Academy
are just step function different than
everybody else. Um, you know, it only
takes 28 hours for fourth grade Math
Academy, 26 hours for fifth grade, 22,
right, for sixth and seventh grade. I
mean, to master the material. But
there's all the other math apps don't do
that, right? But he has a 500-page book
on the learning science behind Math
Academy. The And so that concept, right?
If you're not You have to go back and
rebuild your product based on these
fundamentals that just ed tech never
adopted. Um And I believe then the
Second one I would do is in the meantime
cuz the school school straight to
schools is a failed model.
Parent willingness and propensity to pay
for education that their kids love
is enormous. So this is back to the
other side of the market. It doesn't
matter what your income is. Parents will
pay 10% of AGI,
right, of their income on their kids'
education. Society's pay 5%. The I mean,
it's a $7 trillion industry. We spend a
ton of money in this country. And be If
you have a solution, right, that's that
kids love to engage in, Mhm. right, that
does deliver awesome academic outcomes,
parents will pay for that. And we need
builders who wake up and say, that's
what my job is, not
running the bureaucracy at at, you know,
the school boards and all that stuff. So
there's more flexibility with kids that
are struggling in the public school
system. If you're going to be more
aggressive than that, what else would
you do? The number one thing that I
would do is the 100 for 100 program that
we do, which allows kids to go back and
master, right, all their basics, right?
No matter what their their age grade and
knowledge grade are different. That
program that we run, we need to run that
for everybody in America. And for $400,
maybe $500 of incentive. Remember,
average education, right? We spend lots
of We spend up to 20 grand a kid.
500 bucks we can totally fix
and change the trajectory and all these
bad test scores and
all of that by making sure we're
motivating the kid to go back and do
this. Why is this your mission? Um like
you have kids who have successfully
gotten through, you know, old system,
new system, right? Um or are almost
through in the case of your younger
daughter. Um uh you know, you're
financially independent, you've built a
company before. Like why go all the way
way back into this uh mess of a of a
very hard space?
>> Yeah. Uh
because it's awesome. So, I I obviously
had a good career beforehand and 3 years
ago, my last 3 years as principal, so
this would be my last message to the
builders out there. I did fine before.
It was it was it was good. There was
nothing to complain about. The last 3
years have been so awesome, right? There
is nothing more important for a society
than raising its next generation, right?
It is the definition of whether it
continues. And kids are awesome,
right? And when you sit and say we can
transform what their decades going to be
like or their first 12 years or even
beyond it, right?
The the rewards you get out of this are
just 10x, Mhm. right? It's just and we
didn't even get into it. The student
stories coming out of the parent
stories, you know, um you transform
lives. And so if you say what I you
know, my kids now are gone, right? And
so I spent the 20 years with them. I was
you know, and then now it's like what am
I going to do my next 20 years? This is
going to be the best 20 years of my
life. It's going to be awesome. And uh
and so I believe what we do need it it's
societally important and we need to go
get builders like this to say we're
going to bring new insights, new ways,
even business and capitalism to
education. And I I'm I couldn't look
forward to, you know,
uh more than I do. So, this is
incredibly inspiring. Thank you so much
for joining us today. Thank you very
much. Appreciate it.
Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.